Revision of the German CoNLL 2003 Named Entity Corpus
=====================================================

2006-01-23

Tom Hombergs (tom.hombergs@fernuni-hagen.de)
Sven Hartrumpf (sven.hartrumpf@fernuni-hagen.de)

1. Procedure
2. Major Changes
3. Files

1. Procedure
------------
First of all, the annotations have been mapped to the BIO format. The original
annotation used a tagset which is here called "IO-tagset", marking tokens inside
a NE-phrase with I-XXX and tokens outside a NE-phrase O. The tag B-XXX was only
used to mark the first token of a phrase if it was adjacent to a previous
NE-phrase. This tagset has been mapped by the script io2bio.pl to the
BIO-tagset, where all phrase-starting tokens are marked B-XXX. This step has
beentaken to make annotation easier for learning tools as well as human 
annotators. In a first run-through, all tokens inside a named entity phrase have
been manually checked and their annotation changed if necessary. By this,
false positives as well as wrong classifications could be corrected. In a second
run-through, the data has been classified by a NER-Tool. The classified data has
then been manually checked for false negatives (tokens which the tool recognized
correctly as part of a NE but which were not marked as such in the data). These
have been corrected if necessary. The number of corrections in this second
run-through was rather low compared to the first.

2. Major Changes
----------------
By far the most changes were made in the named entity class MISC:
 - adjectives derived from names ("deutsch") are no longer marked
 - nouns derived from names ("Frankfurter") are no longer marked
 - compounds which contain a name, but are not a name in itself
   ("SPD-Vorsitzender") are no longer marked

The rest of the changes were mainly simple corrections or changes to conserve
consistency.

3. Files
--------
The directory "original" contains the original annotated corpora as made
available for CoNLL 2003. The subdirectory "revision" contains the files with
revised annotation. The subdirectories "BIO-tagset" and "IO-tagset" contain the
same annotation just with a different tagset.The revision of the annotation was
made after mapping from IO to BIO-tagset, so the revised files are only
available in BIO-tagset.
